>> Steve Kinney: All right,
the other main thing,
it will be the common refrain that we talk
about, this idea of a context window.
If you're not familiar with what that is,
it's basically like when you talk to
a ChatGPT or a Gemini or a Claude or what
have you, there is a limited window and
that window grows exponentially
all the time, right?
Like Gemini's is like 2 million tokens and
a token is roughly four characters.
So, a lot.
But that wasn't always the case.
It's not always the case for
every model, right?
And the bigger and better the model is,
the slower and more expensive it is.
But even then, having too much
stuff in context makes it hard.
You lose the thread.
Just imagine being a human and having too
many things in your head at the same time.
It doesn't work out well.
And arguably this is going to
be the biggest theme of our
time together is this idea of
managing the context window and
what you have in the context window and
how much stuff.
And making sure you have the right stuff
in the context window is effectively
the answer right now.
The tricky part is the nuance of
how do you do that effectively?
The answer of how do
you get better results?
And how do you not end up as like,
hey, I just sent off to do a thing and
it did something wild to like,
hey, I said to do a thing.
I roughly got what I was expecting.
Sometimes that's breaking
the problem down to smaller pieces.
Sometimes that's making sure that
it knows about the right things and
it's not reading old deprecated legacy
code to then pattern match your old
deprecated legacy patterns.
Totally.
The other one is my old boss used to have
a sticker on his iPad that he only used to
log into Zoom meetings, which was weeks
of coding can save you hours of planning.
This was 2017.
But it's true,
it turns out clearly writing
down your plan explicitly
about what you want.
If you say do auth, it will do auth.
If you say, hey, use Auth0 as
JavaScript SDK to implement a react hook
that checks for user authentication and
hooks into Google OAuth, you're
going to get something closer to what
you wanted, if that's what you wanted.
Actually, a lot of times having plans,
even stuff like architectural decision
records and stuff like that,
turns out to be wildly effective.
Like we said before,
name of the game is managing the context
window every line of your chat.
These are not stateful machines as
much as they feel like they are.
When you use any of these APIs you're not
just sending the most recent message.
You are sending the entire chat history
as if it had never seen any of it before.
There's no sessions, there's no cookies
per se, other than for the auth,
you're sending it everything.
So some of that is just clearing
out the chat, starting a new chat.
Some of it is compacting it down.
Some of it is to make sure
it has only what it wants.
Some of it is instead of saying,
build me an enterprise SaaS app,
starting with I need a drag and
drop file upload widgetin the UI.
Okay, now when someone drags it and they
hit submit, let's go put it in S3 bucket.
Keeping these tasks again,
a lot of this applies to humans too.
And breaking down those small pieces,
you are going to get better success than
if you say, go off and do this wild thing.
And I will argue there are two phases.
In some cases you call this
plan implement and verify.
So it gets a third phase.
But I think the verify is implicit,
which is there's a difference between
brainstorming and executing and
especially working alone.
A lot of times even having
the brainstorming part of.
Let me think through this.
The idea of rubber ducking where
you talk to rubber duck and
all of a sudden you solve your problems.
This one will talk back to you.
Or even stuff like, hey,
I wrote this code, what am I missing?
Some of these tools that work with the
PRs, like GitHub has Copilot now in a PR,
you can have it review your PR.
Sometimes it's like, yeah,
I did absolutely miss that.
Because as the manager of a team,
if I open a PR for my team,
I always get it looks good to
me because nobody will ever.
They just assume I know what I'm doing.
I'm like, I'm doing this during a meeting.
So I think there's a time for
brainstorming and there's a time for
executing.
Those are not at the same time, right?
It is okay to sit there and
kind of come up with the plan.
We were talking before.
More than one of us have the strategy of
come up with a plan with ChatGPT03 and
then bring it over to Google Gemini.
Be, poke holes in this plan and then bring
that over to Claude with the plan and
the poked holes in the plan and
come up with a third, right?
There's a time and a place for
that too, which I think is valuable.
You should always be the arbiter
of how that ends up.
If you just take the plan and
you don't read it,
I don't know why you did that then.
But there is a place for
the brainstorming.
There's a place to be executing, trying to
figure out what you want to build while
you're building it is
not going to go well.
And then again,
it is on you to keep your house in order,
either starting your day or
end your day auditing everything.
Because a lot of these tools,
Claude code is really guilty of this,
which is it'll start just
making a v2js file and
leaving the old one there and
a simplified TS file.
When you said this is wild,
what are you doing?
It will just leave those around and all
these tools again, they're not magic and
they're not human.
Cursor is using a vector database
to index your code base and
it kind of knows what the legacy code and
the real code is, but
only based on heuristics,
which it could make mistakes on.
So trimming the dead code,
keeping up with things, looking at it,
trimming your own rules.
I had an issue where I thought
it wasn't listening to me.
What I realized is that my
Cloude MD said one thing and
my Cursor rules said a different thing
cuz I updated one of them, right?
A lot of these are issues that
we think these tools are bad or
we think they're magical when they're not.
They're tools.
And if, I mean, we've all had bad days,
but if regular TypeScript or
JavaScript wasn't doing
what it was supposed to do,
we kind of know it's kind of our fault,
right?
With these tools, we assume it's their
fault, which is sometimes true, but
a lot of times it's still only
one of you is going to change.